.TH "notices" 3 "20 Oct 2006" "Modbus Slave C++ Library" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
notices \- Notices
\fBDisclaimer\fP: FOCUS Software Engineering makes no warranty for the use of its products, other than those expressly contained in the Company’s standard warranty which is detailed in FOCUS Software Engineering’s Terms and Conditions located on the Company’s Website. The Company assumes no responsibility for any errors which may appear in this document, reserves the right to change devices or specifications detailed herein at any time without notice, and does not make any commitment to update the information contained herein. No licenses to patents or other intellectual property of FOCUS Software Engineering are granted by the Company in connection with the sale of FOCUS Software Engineering's products, expressly or by implication. FOCUS Software Engineering’s products are not authorized for use as critical components in life support devices or systems.
.PP
FieldTalk was developed by:
.br
 FOCUS Software Engineering Pty Ltd, Australia.
.br
 Copyright (C) 2002-2006. All rights reserved.
.PP
FieldTalk is a trademark of FOCUS Software Engineering Pty Ltd. Modbus is a trademark or registered trademark of Schneider Automation Inc. Java and all Java-based marks are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All other product and brand names mentioned in this document may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners. 
